_pages/Presentations.md, before:

---
layout: smallfont_page
permalink: /Presentations/
title: Presentations
description: Updated list of oral presentations
nav: true
---

(*) upcoming
(**) to be confirmed

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Sessions

__[3]__ Zahirovic S., __Pohl A.__, Sarr, A.-C., Arnould, M., Leonard, J. Data and models constraining Earth's deep-time paleogeography. EGU 2023, Vienna, Austria. [[link](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/sessionmodification/46203){:target="_blank"}] 

__[2]__ Mills B.J.W., Cantine M., Bowyer F., Gurung K., Sanchez-Baracaldo P., __Pohl A.__, Henehan M. BG5.4 Co-evolution of life and the Earth over deep time, and major transitions in Earth's biosphere and environment. EGU 2023, Vienna, Austria. [[link](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/session/44973){:target="_blank"}]

__[1]__ __Pohl A.__, Le Hir G., Sepulchre, P. T10: Interactions between climate, environment and biodiversity in the past, present and future: inputs from data and models. Climate and Impacts 2022, Paris, France.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Keynotes

__[5]__ __Pohl A.__, Nardin, E., Vandenbroucke T.R.A., Donnadieu Y. The Ordovician ocean circulation, a modern synthesis based on data and models. IGCP653 absolutely final meeting 2021 (online).

__[4]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.B., Dumas C., Vandenbroucke T.R.A., Austermann, J. Modeling Ordovician ice sheet and the sea-level fingerprint of its collapse: toward a consistent picture of the Ordovician glaciation. GSA2020 (online).

__[3]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ferreira D. The climatic significance of Late Ordovician – Early Silurian black shales. GSA2019, Phoenix, AZ (USA).

__[2]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.B., Dumas C., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. Reconstructing paleoceanography and paleoclimate in the Ordovician: what can we learn from climate models? IGCP 653 “The onset of the Great Ordovician Biodiversity Event” Opening Meeting, Durham (UK).

__[1]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.B., Dumas C., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. The end-Ordovician glaciation: steppingstone toward a unifying theory for Phanerozoic ice ages. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 5th Annual Meeting, Quebec City (Canada).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Talks in international meetings

__[42**]__ Balembois A., Lefebvre B., __Pohl A.__, Servais T., Valdes P.J., Lunt D., Beaugrand G. Marine biodiversity and the niche-environment interaction through deep time. Life and the Planet 2024 (annual meeting of the Earth System Science Group of the Geological Society of London), London, UK. 

__[41**]__ Godderis Y., __Pohl A.__, Maffre P., Donnadieu Y., Schott J., Brantley S.J. Sensitivity of silicate rock weathering to climate and atmospheric CO2
. Goldschmidt 2024, Chicago, IL, USA.

__[40**]__ Yohler R., Schuster E., Mitchell C., __Pohl A.__, Finnegan S. Development of an inverse modelling framework for determining the drivers of mass extinction events and application to the Late Ordovician record of graptolites, NAPC (North American Paleontological Convention) 2024, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

__[39]__ Tetard M., Okazaki Y., __Pohl A.__, Ridgwell A., Ovsepyan E., Beaufort L. Response of Pacific ocean oxygenation to Atlantic circulation changes, AGU 2023, San Francisco, CA, USA.

__[38]__ Ridgwell A., __Pohl A.__, Valdes P., Hardisty D., Valdes P. Challenges in reconstructing past ocean oxygenation, AGU 2023, San Francisco, CA, USA.

__[37]__ Prow A.N., Lu Z., Bättler C.L., He T., Yang Z., Singh P., Kemeny P., __Pohl A.__, Bhattacharya T., van de Schootbrugge B., Payne J.L. Examining the influence of carbonate diagenesis on paleo-redox indicators across the Triassic-Jurassic boundary: implications for contrasting conditions at the European margin, AGU 2023, San Francisco, CA, USA.

__[36*]__ Godderis Y., Maffre P., __Pohl A.__. The role of the thickness of the regolith cover on the Earth climate stability. Tereno Ozcar 2023, Bonn, Germany.

__[35]__ __Pohl A.__ Radiations and extinctions in early Paleozoic oceans: understanding the dynamics of the early marine biosphere. Life and the Planet 2023 (annual meeting of the Earth System Science Group of the Geological Society of London), London, UK.

__[34]__ Stockey R.G., Saupe. E., __Pohl A.__, Mills B. Mass extinctions and close calls: using experimental Earth systems and ecophysiological modelling to understand what makes a catastrophic extinction. Life and the Planet 2023 (annual meeting of the Earth System Science Group of the Geological Society of London), London, UK.

__[33]__ Godderis Y., Maffre P., __Pohl A.__. The role of the thickness of the regolith cover on the Earth climate stability. Goldschmidt 2023, Lyon, France.

__[32]__ Zhang F., __Pohl A.__, Elrick M., Swart P., Cheng K., Crockford P., Fakhraee M., Lin Y., Cao M., Wei G., Li N., Shen S. Enhanced marine biological carbon pump as a trigger for Early Mississippian marine anoxia and climatic cooling. Goldschmidt 2023, Lyon, France.

__[31]__ Eliahou Ontiveros, D., Beaugrand, G., Lefebvre, B., Markussen Marcilly, C., Servais, T., __Pohl, A.__ Cooling Oceans Did Trigger Ordovician Biodiversification. Climate and impacts 2022, Paris, France.

__[30]__ Charton, R., __Pohl, A.__, Bruna, P.-O., Rongier, G., Maffre, P. Erosional exhumation hotspot maps, feasibility study for the Phanerozoic. Nederlands Aardwetenschappelijk Congres (NAC), Utrecht, The Netherlands, 2022.

__[29]__ Wong Hearing, T.W., \*__Pohl, A.__, Williams, M., Donnadieu, Y., Harvey, T.H.P., Scotese, C.R., Sepulchre, P., Franc, A., and Vandenbroucke, T.R.A. Climate data and model constraints on Cambrian palaeogeography. 21th International Sedimentological Congress 2022 (online). \* Presenter

__[28]__ __Pohl, A.__, Lu Z., Lu W., Stockey R.G., Elrick M., Li M., Desrochers A., Shen Y., He R., Finnegan S., Ridgwell A. Une réorganisation de la circulation océanique à l’origine de l’anoxie au cours de la glaciation de l’Ordovicien terminal. RST 2021, Lyon (France).

__[27]__ Stockey, R.G., __Pohl, A.__, Ridgwell, A., Finnegan, S., Sperling, E.A. Decreasing Phanerozoic extinction intensity as a consequence of Earth surface oxygenation and metazoan ecophysiology. PalAss 2020 (online).

__[26]__ Lettéron, A., Sayago, J., Michel, J., Lanteaume, C., __Pohl, A.__, Laugié, M., Donnadieu, Y., Kenter, J., Borgomano, J. Marine Carbonate Factories and Stratigraphic Response Through Time and Space: Methodology, Examples and Implications. AGU 2020 (online).

__[25]__ Stockey, R.G., __Pohl, A.__, Ridgwell, A., Finnegan, S., Sperling, E.A. Decreasing Phanerozoic extinction intensity is a predictable consequence of Earth surface oxygenation and metazoan ecophysiology. GSA 2020 (online).

__[24]__ Michel J., Laugié M., __Pohl A.__, Lanteaume C., Borgomano J., Kenter J. Carbonate factories: a model of global carbonate platform distribution. Bathurst 2019, Mallorca (Spain).

__[23]__ Kenter J., Borgomano J., Donnadieu Y., __Pohl A.__, Michel J., Lettéron A., Lanteaume C. Unraveling Carbonates through Time and Space: Reducing Prospect Uncertainty and Optimizing Reservoir Characterization. GSL 2019: Hydrocarbons in space and time, London (UK).

__[22]__ __Pohl A.__, Laugié M., Borgomano J, Michel J., Lanteaume C., Scotese C.R., Frau C., Poli E., Masse J.-P., Donnadieu Y. Quantifying the palaeogeographical driver of Cretaceous carbonate platforms development using niche modeling. STRATI 2019, Milano (Italy).

__[21]__ Kenter J., Borgomano J., Donnadieu Y., __Pohl A.__, Michel J., Lettéron A., Lanteaume C., Baral, C. Carbonates through Time and Space: Prediction and Reservoir Characterization. IAS 2019, Roma (Italy).

__[20]__ Laugié M., __Pohl A.__, Michel J., Lanteaume C., Scotese C.R., Frau C., Poli E., Masse J.-P., Donnadieu Y., Borgomano J. Carbonate factory prediction through space and time: A spatial model based on environmental parameters. EGU 2019, Vienna (Austria).

__[19]__ __Pohl A.__, Austermann, J. A sea-level fingerprint of the Late Ordovician ice-sheet collapse. RST2018, Lille (France).

__[18]__ __Pohl A.__, Laugié M., Michel J., Lanteaume C., Scotese C.R., Frau C., Poli E., Masse J.-P., Donnadieu Y., Borgomano J., 2018. Quantifying the palaeogeographical driver of Cretaceous carbonate platforms development using niche modeling. RST 2018, Lille (France).

__[17]__ __Pohl A.__, Harper D.A.T., Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Nardin E., Vandenbroucke T.R.A., Servais T. Using climate modeling to reconstruct possible patterns of primary productivity and ocean circulation during the GOBE. IPC 5, Paris (France).

__[16]__ __Pohl A.__, Laugié M., Michel J., Lanteaume C., Scotese C.R., Frau C., Poli E., Masse J.-P., Donnadieu Y., Borgomano J. Quantifying the palaeogeographical driver of Cretaceous carbonate platforms development using niche modeling. IPC 5 (2017), Paris (France).

__[15]__ Hearing T.W., __Pohl A.__, Williams M., Harvey T.H.P., Donnadieu Y. Coupling palaeoclimate data and numerical climate models to constrain Cambrian palaeogeography. Palass 2017, London (UK).

__[14]__ Saupe E., Qiao H., Farnsworth A., Donnadieu Y., Lunt D.J., __Pohl A.__, Sagoo N., Valdes P., Finnegan S. Combined climate and ecological niche modeling predicts the relative severity of marine extinctions during three Phanerozoic episodes of climatic cooling. GSA 2017, Seattle, WA (USA).

__[13]__ Ruvalcaba Baroni I., __Pohl A.__ , van Helmond, N.A.G.M., Coe, A., Cohen, A., Donnadieu, Y., Slomp, C.P. Ocean circulation and biogeochemistry during the Toarcian Oceanic Anoxic Event. Goldschmidt 2017, Paris (France).

__[12]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Pucéat E., Moiroud M., Guillocheau F., Deconinck J.-F., Poli E., Borgomano J. A better-ventilated ocean triggered by Late Cretaceous changes in continental configuration. 10th International Symposium on the Cretaceous (ISC10 – 2017), Vienna (Austria).

__[11]__ Porada P., Lenton T. M., __Pohl A.__, Weber, B., Mander, L., Donnadieu, Y., Beer, C., Pöschl, U., Kleidon, A. High potential for weathering and climate effects of non-vascular vegetation in the Late Ordovician. EGU 2017, Vienna (Austria).

__[10]__ Vandenbroucke T.R.A., Hylebos A., __Pohl A.__, Sadler P., Donnadieu Y., Sabbe K., Williams M., Ghienne J.-F., De Weirdt J., McLaughlin P., Emsbo P. Further evidence for a perennial Ordovician ice-house climate and the need for alternative kill mechanisms for the late Ordovician mass extinction. Geological Society of America (GSA) Annual Meeting 2016, Boulder, CO (USA).

__[9]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.-B., Dumas C., Alvarez-Solas J., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. Glacial onset predated Late Ordovician climate cooling. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 6th Annual Meeting (2016), Ghent (Belgium).

__[8]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Brunetti M., Ferreira D. Constraints on the changes in Late Ordovician–early Silurian oceanic redox state through palaeoceanographic modelling. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 6th Annual Meeting (2016), Ghent (Belgium).

__[7]__ Porada P., Lenton T. M., __Pohl A.__, Weber, B., Mander, L., Donnadieu, Y., Beer, C., Pöschl, U., Kleidon, A. High potential for chemical weathering and climate effects of early lichens and bryophytes in the Late Ordovician EGU 2016, Vienna (Austria).

__[6]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Dumas C.,Ladant J.-B., Buoncristiani J.-F., Vennin E. Modeling Late Ordovician (445 Ma) climatic changes with the ocean-atmosphere model FOAM and the ice-sheet model GRISLI. Geological Society of America (GSA) Annual Meeting 2014, Vancouver (USA).

__[5]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Dumas C., Buoncristiani J.-F. and Vennin E. Tipping- points in the Ordovician climate. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 4th Annual Meeting (2014), Tartu (Estonia).

__[4]__ Guillon H., Godon C., Goupy B., __Pohl A.__, Buoncristiani J.-F., Mugnier J.-L. Glacial and periglacial erosion rate inferred from five years of detrital ux monitoring (Bossons stream, Mont-Blanc massif, France). AIG: 8th International Conference in Geomorphology (2013), Paris (France).

__[3]__ Donnadieu Y., __Pohl A.__, Dumas C., Le Hir G., Lefebvre V., Buoncristiani J.-F. Simulating the Late Ordovician cooling with the ocean-atmosphere model FOAM. IGCP 591 3th Annual Meeting 2013, Lund (Sweden).

__[2]__ Guillon H., Godon C., Goupy B., __Pohl A.__, Buoncristiani J.-F., and Mugnier J.-L. Periglacial area sediment budget of a rapidly retreating glacier inferred from four years of detrital flux monitoring (Bossons stream, Mont-Blanc massif, France). Congress Moutains under watch 2013, observing climate changes in the Alps, Forte di Bard (Italy).

__[1]__ Mugnier J.-L., Godon C., Buoncristiani J.-F., Guillon H., Trouvé., __Pohl A.__, and Paquette J.-L. A measurement of the erosion beneath the Glacier des Bossons (Chamonix, France). Congress Moutains under watch 2013, observating climate changes in the Alps, Forte di Bard (Italy).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Posters in international meetings

__[12**]__ Wong Hearing T.W., __Pohl A.__, Harvey T., Liu A.G., Na L., Vandyk T., Williams M. Earth’s first Phanerozoic-style glaciation? Life and the Planet 2024 (annual meeting of the Earth System Science Group of the Geological Society of London), London, UK.

__[11]__ Yohler R., Schuster E., Mitchell C., __Pohl A.__, Finnegan S. Attributing extinctions to environmental forcings: an inverse approach, GSA 2023, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

__[10]__ Wong Hearing T., Harvey T.H.P., __Pohl A.__, Liu A.G., Williams M. Earth System dynamics at the dawn of the animal-rich biosphere. Life and the Planet 2023 (annual meeting of the Earth System Science Group of the Geological Society of London), London, UK.

__[9]__ Ridgwell A., __Pohl, A.__, Keane A., Valdes P. Is past ocean circulation predictable? (no). ICP14 (2022), Bergen (Norway).

__[8]__ Wong Hearing T., __Pohl, A.__, Williams M., Harvey T., Donnadieu Y., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. Climatic constraints on Cambrian palaeogeography. Royal Society 2019, London (UK).

__[7]__ Frau, C., Bulot, L., __Pohl, A.__, Ifrim, C., Wimbledon, W.A. Berriasian ammonites from the type “Ryazanian” (Central Russia) of supposed Tethyan origin: a systematic re-interpretation. JK2018: International Meeting AROUND the Jurassic-Cretaceous Boundary, Geneva (Switzerland).

__[6]__ __Pohl A.__, Austermann, J., Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.-B., Dumas C., Alvarez-Solas J., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. Modeling Ordovician ice sheet and the sea-level fingerprint of its collapse: toward a consistent picture of the Ordovician glaciation. EGU 2018, Vienna (Austria).

__[5]__ Nardin E., Lefebvre B., __Pohl A.__. Biogeography of the Late Ordovician blastozoan echinoderms. 60th Palaeontological Association Annual Meeting (2016), Lyon (France).

__[4]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.-B., Dumas C., Alvarez-Solas J., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. Glacial onset predated Late Ordovician climate cooling. 12th International Conference on Paleoceanography (2016), Utrecht (The Netherlands).

__[3]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Brunetti M., Ferreira D. Constraints on the changes in Late Ordovician–early Silurian oceanic redox state through palaeoceanographic modelling. 12th International Conference on Paleoceanography (2016), Utrecht (The Netherlands).

__[2]__ Nardin E., Lefebvre B., Makhlouf Y., __Pohl A.__. Environmental controls of the biogeography of the Ordovicien “cystoids“. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 6th Annual Meeting (2016), Ghent (Belgium).

__[1]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G. Investigating the response of marine living communities to the Ordovician climate changes with the ocean-atmosphere-carbon model MITgcm. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 5th Annual Meeting (2015), Quebec City (Canada).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Seminars

__[2]__ 2023, LGL-TPE, University of Lyon, Lyon, France.

__[1]__ 2016, Biogéosciences, University of Burgundy, Dijon, France.

Commit message:

update Rich Life and Planet

_pages/Presentations.md, after:

---
layout: smallfont_page
permalink: /Presentations/
title: Presentations
description: Updated list of oral presentations
nav: true
---

(*) upcoming
(**) to be confirmed

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Sessions

__[3]__ Zahirovic S., __Pohl A.__, Sarr, A.-C., Arnould, M., Leonard, J. Data and models constraining Earth's deep-time paleogeography. EGU 2023, Vienna, Austria. [[link](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/sessionmodification/46203){:target="_blank"}] 

__[2]__ Mills B.J.W., Cantine M., Bowyer F., Gurung K., Sanchez-Baracaldo P., __Pohl A.__, Henehan M. BG5.4 Co-evolution of life and the Earth over deep time, and major transitions in Earth's biosphere and environment. EGU 2023, Vienna, Austria. [[link](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/session/44973){:target="_blank"}]

__[1]__ __Pohl A.__, Le Hir G., Sepulchre, P. T10: Interactions between climate, environment and biodiversity in the past, present and future: inputs from data and models. Climate and Impacts 2022, Paris, France.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Keynotes

__[5]__ __Pohl A.__, Nardin, E., Vandenbroucke T.R.A., Donnadieu Y. The Ordovician ocean circulation, a modern synthesis based on data and models. IGCP653 absolutely final meeting 2021 (online).

__[4]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.B., Dumas C., Vandenbroucke T.R.A., Austermann, J. Modeling Ordovician ice sheet and the sea-level fingerprint of its collapse: toward a consistent picture of the Ordovician glaciation. GSA2020 (online).

__[3]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ferreira D. The climatic significance of Late Ordovician – Early Silurian black shales. GSA2019, Phoenix, AZ (USA).

__[2]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.B., Dumas C., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. Reconstructing paleoceanography and paleoclimate in the Ordovician: what can we learn from climate models? IGCP 653 “The onset of the Great Ordovician Biodiversity Event” Opening Meeting, Durham (UK).

__[1]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.B., Dumas C., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. The end-Ordovician glaciation: steppingstone toward a unifying theory for Phanerozoic ice ages. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 5th Annual Meeting, Quebec City (Canada).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Talks in international meetings

__[42**]__ Balembois A., Lefebvre B., __Pohl A.__, Servais T., Valdes P.J., Lunt D., Beaugrand G. Marine biodiversity and the niche-environment interaction through deep time. Life and the Planet 2024 (annual meeting of the Earth System Science Group of the Geological Society of London), London, UK. 

__[41**]__ Godderis Y., __Pohl A.__, Maffre P., Donnadieu Y., Schott J., Brantley S.J. Sensitivity of silicate rock weathering to climate and atmospheric CO2
. Goldschmidt 2024, Chicago, IL, USA.

__[40**]__ Yohler R., Schuster E., Mitchell C., __Pohl A.__, Finnegan S. Development of an inverse modelling framework for determining the drivers of mass extinction events and application to the Late Ordovician record of graptolites, NAPC (North American Paleontological Convention) 2024, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

__[39]__ Tetard M., Okazaki Y., __Pohl A.__, Ridgwell A., Ovsepyan E., Beaufort L. Response of Pacific ocean oxygenation to Atlantic circulation changes, AGU 2023, San Francisco, CA, USA.

__[38]__ Ridgwell A., __Pohl A.__, Valdes P., Hardisty D., Valdes P. Challenges in reconstructing past ocean oxygenation, AGU 2023, San Francisco, CA, USA.

__[37]__ Prow A.N., Lu Z., Bättler C.L., He T., Yang Z., Singh P., Kemeny P., __Pohl A.__, Bhattacharya T., van de Schootbrugge B., Payne J.L. Examining the influence of carbonate diagenesis on paleo-redox indicators across the Triassic-Jurassic boundary: implications for contrasting conditions at the European margin, AGU 2023, San Francisco, CA, USA.

__[36*]__ Godderis Y., Maffre P., __Pohl A.__. The role of the thickness of the regolith cover on the Earth climate stability. Tereno Ozcar 2023, Bonn, Germany.

__[35]__ __Pohl A.__ Radiations and extinctions in early Paleozoic oceans: understanding the dynamics of the early marine biosphere. Life and the Planet 2023 (annual meeting of the Earth System Science Group of the Geological Society of London), London, UK.

__[34]__ Stockey R.G., Saupe. E., __Pohl A.__, Mills B. Mass extinctions and close calls: using experimental Earth systems and ecophysiological modelling to understand what makes a catastrophic extinction. Life and the Planet 2023 (annual meeting of the Earth System Science Group of the Geological Society of London), London, UK.

__[33]__ Godderis Y., Maffre P., __Pohl A.__. The role of the thickness of the regolith cover on the Earth climate stability. Goldschmidt 2023, Lyon, France.

__[32]__ Zhang F., __Pohl A.__, Elrick M., Swart P., Cheng K., Crockford P., Fakhraee M., Lin Y., Cao M., Wei G., Li N., Shen S. Enhanced marine biological carbon pump as a trigger for Early Mississippian marine anoxia and climatic cooling. Goldschmidt 2023, Lyon, France.

__[31]__ Eliahou Ontiveros, D., Beaugrand, G., Lefebvre, B., Markussen Marcilly, C., Servais, T., __Pohl, A.__ Cooling Oceans Did Trigger Ordovician Biodiversification. Climate and impacts 2022, Paris, France.

__[30]__ Charton, R., __Pohl, A.__, Bruna, P.-O., Rongier, G., Maffre, P. Erosional exhumation hotspot maps, feasibility study for the Phanerozoic. Nederlands Aardwetenschappelijk Congres (NAC), Utrecht, The Netherlands, 2022.

__[29]__ Wong Hearing, T.W., \*__Pohl, A.__, Williams, M., Donnadieu, Y., Harvey, T.H.P., Scotese, C.R., Sepulchre, P., Franc, A., and Vandenbroucke, T.R.A. Climate data and model constraints on Cambrian palaeogeography. 21th International Sedimentological Congress 2022 (online). \* Presenter

__[28]__ __Pohl, A.__, Lu Z., Lu W., Stockey R.G., Elrick M., Li M., Desrochers A., Shen Y., He R., Finnegan S., Ridgwell A. Une réorganisation de la circulation océanique à l’origine de l’anoxie au cours de la glaciation de l’Ordovicien terminal. RST 2021, Lyon (France).

__[27]__ Stockey, R.G., __Pohl, A.__, Ridgwell, A., Finnegan, S., Sperling, E.A. Decreasing Phanerozoic extinction intensity as a consequence of Earth surface oxygenation and metazoan ecophysiology. PalAss 2020 (online).

__[26]__ Lettéron, A., Sayago, J., Michel, J., Lanteaume, C., __Pohl, A.__, Laugié, M., Donnadieu, Y., Kenter, J., Borgomano, J. Marine Carbonate Factories and Stratigraphic Response Through Time and Space: Methodology, Examples and Implications. AGU 2020 (online).

__[25]__ Stockey, R.G., __Pohl, A.__, Ridgwell, A., Finnegan, S., Sperling, E.A. Decreasing Phanerozoic extinction intensity is a predictable consequence of Earth surface oxygenation and metazoan ecophysiology. GSA 2020 (online).

__[24]__ Michel J., Laugié M., __Pohl A.__, Lanteaume C., Borgomano J., Kenter J. Carbonate factories: a model of global carbonate platform distribution. Bathurst 2019, Mallorca (Spain).

__[23]__ Kenter J., Borgomano J., Donnadieu Y., __Pohl A.__, Michel J., Lettéron A., Lanteaume C. Unraveling Carbonates through Time and Space: Reducing Prospect Uncertainty and Optimizing Reservoir Characterization. GSL 2019: Hydrocarbons in space and time, London (UK).

__[22]__ __Pohl A.__, Laugié M., Borgomano J, Michel J., Lanteaume C., Scotese C.R., Frau C., Poli E., Masse J.-P., Donnadieu Y. Quantifying the palaeogeographical driver of Cretaceous carbonate platforms development using niche modeling. STRATI 2019, Milano (Italy).

__[21]__ Kenter J., Borgomano J., Donnadieu Y., __Pohl A.__, Michel J., Lettéron A., Lanteaume C., Baral, C. Carbonates through Time and Space: Prediction and Reservoir Characterization. IAS 2019, Roma (Italy).

__[20]__ Laugié M., __Pohl A.__, Michel J., Lanteaume C., Scotese C.R., Frau C., Poli E., Masse J.-P., Donnadieu Y., Borgomano J. Carbonate factory prediction through space and time: A spatial model based on environmental parameters. EGU 2019, Vienna (Austria).

__[19]__ __Pohl A.__, Austermann, J. A sea-level fingerprint of the Late Ordovician ice-sheet collapse. RST2018, Lille (France).

__[18]__ __Pohl A.__, Laugié M., Michel J., Lanteaume C., Scotese C.R., Frau C., Poli E., Masse J.-P., Donnadieu Y., Borgomano J., 2018. Quantifying the palaeogeographical driver of Cretaceous carbonate platforms development using niche modeling. RST 2018, Lille (France).

__[17]__ __Pohl A.__, Harper D.A.T., Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Nardin E., Vandenbroucke T.R.A., Servais T. Using climate modeling to reconstruct possible patterns of primary productivity and ocean circulation during the GOBE. IPC 5, Paris (France).

__[16]__ __Pohl A.__, Laugié M., Michel J., Lanteaume C., Scotese C.R., Frau C., Poli E., Masse J.-P., Donnadieu Y., Borgomano J. Quantifying the palaeogeographical driver of Cretaceous carbonate platforms development using niche modeling. IPC 5 (2017), Paris (France).

__[15]__ Hearing T.W., __Pohl A.__, Williams M., Harvey T.H.P., Donnadieu Y. Coupling palaeoclimate data and numerical climate models to constrain Cambrian palaeogeography. Palass 2017, London (UK).

__[14]__ Saupe E., Qiao H., Farnsworth A., Donnadieu Y., Lunt D.J., __Pohl A.__, Sagoo N., Valdes P., Finnegan S. Combined climate and ecological niche modeling predicts the relative severity of marine extinctions during three Phanerozoic episodes of climatic cooling. GSA 2017, Seattle, WA (USA).

__[13]__ Ruvalcaba Baroni I., __Pohl A.__ , van Helmond, N.A.G.M., Coe, A., Cohen, A., Donnadieu, Y., Slomp, C.P. Ocean circulation and biogeochemistry during the Toarcian Oceanic Anoxic Event. Goldschmidt 2017, Paris (France).

__[12]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Pucéat E., Moiroud M., Guillocheau F., Deconinck J.-F., Poli E., Borgomano J. A better-ventilated ocean triggered by Late Cretaceous changes in continental configuration. 10th International Symposium on the Cretaceous (ISC10 – 2017), Vienna (Austria).

__[11]__ Porada P., Lenton T. M., __Pohl A.__, Weber, B., Mander, L., Donnadieu, Y., Beer, C., Pöschl, U., Kleidon, A. High potential for weathering and climate effects of non-vascular vegetation in the Late Ordovician. EGU 2017, Vienna (Austria).

__[10]__ Vandenbroucke T.R.A., Hylebos A., __Pohl A.__, Sadler P., Donnadieu Y., Sabbe K., Williams M., Ghienne J.-F., De Weirdt J., McLaughlin P., Emsbo P. Further evidence for a perennial Ordovician ice-house climate and the need for alternative kill mechanisms for the late Ordovician mass extinction. Geological Society of America (GSA) Annual Meeting 2016, Boulder, CO (USA).

__[9]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.-B., Dumas C., Alvarez-Solas J., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. Glacial onset predated Late Ordovician climate cooling. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 6th Annual Meeting (2016), Ghent (Belgium).

__[8]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Brunetti M., Ferreira D. Constraints on the changes in Late Ordovician–early Silurian oceanic redox state through palaeoceanographic modelling. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 6th Annual Meeting (2016), Ghent (Belgium).

__[7]__ Porada P., Lenton T. M., __Pohl A.__, Weber, B., Mander, L., Donnadieu, Y., Beer, C., Pöschl, U., Kleidon, A. High potential for chemical weathering and climate effects of early lichens and bryophytes in the Late Ordovician EGU 2016, Vienna (Austria).

__[6]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Dumas C.,Ladant J.-B., Buoncristiani J.-F., Vennin E. Modeling Late Ordovician (445 Ma) climatic changes with the ocean-atmosphere model FOAM and the ice-sheet model GRISLI. Geological Society of America (GSA) Annual Meeting 2014, Vancouver (USA).

__[5]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Dumas C., Buoncristiani J.-F. and Vennin E. Tipping- points in the Ordovician climate. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 4th Annual Meeting (2014), Tartu (Estonia).

__[4]__ Guillon H., Godon C., Goupy B., __Pohl A.__, Buoncristiani J.-F., Mugnier J.-L. Glacial and periglacial erosion rate inferred from five years of detrital ux monitoring (Bossons stream, Mont-Blanc massif, France). AIG: 8th International Conference in Geomorphology (2013), Paris (France).

__[3]__ Donnadieu Y., __Pohl A.__, Dumas C., Le Hir G., Lefebvre V., Buoncristiani J.-F. Simulating the Late Ordovician cooling with the ocean-atmosphere model FOAM. IGCP 591 3th Annual Meeting 2013, Lund (Sweden).

__[2]__ Guillon H., Godon C., Goupy B., __Pohl A.__, Buoncristiani J.-F., and Mugnier J.-L. Periglacial area sediment budget of a rapidly retreating glacier inferred from four years of detrital flux monitoring (Bossons stream, Mont-Blanc massif, France). Congress Moutains under watch 2013, observing climate changes in the Alps, Forte di Bard (Italy).

__[1]__ Mugnier J.-L., Godon C., Buoncristiani J.-F., Guillon H., Trouvé., __Pohl A.__, and Paquette J.-L. A measurement of the erosion beneath the Glacier des Bossons (Chamonix, France). Congress Moutains under watch 2013, observating climate changes in the Alps, Forte di Bard (Italy).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Posters in international meetings

__[13**]__ Stockey R.G., Mills B.J.W., Saupe E., Monarrez P., Gruszka P., __Pohl A.__ Monteiro F., Xie Y., Vervoort P., Inglis G., Gernon T., Huelse D., Ridgwell A., Lunt D. Phanerozoic ocean biogeochemistry and marine biodiversity in space and time. Life and the Planet 2024 (annual meeting of the Earth System Science Group of the Geological Society of London), London, UK.

__[12**]__ Wong Hearing T.W., __Pohl A.__, Harvey T., Liu A.G., Na L., Vandyk T., Williams M. Earth’s first Phanerozoic-style glaciation? Life and the Planet 2024 (annual meeting of the Earth System Science Group of the Geological Society of London), London, UK.

__[11]__ Yohler R., Schuster E., Mitchell C., __Pohl A.__, Finnegan S. Attributing extinctions to environmental forcings: an inverse approach, GSA 2023, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

__[10]__ Wong Hearing T., Harvey T.H.P., __Pohl A.__, Liu A.G., Williams M. Earth System dynamics at the dawn of the animal-rich biosphere. Life and the Planet 2023 (annual meeting of the Earth System Science Group of the Geological Society of London), London, UK.

__[9]__ Ridgwell A., __Pohl, A.__, Keane A., Valdes P. Is past ocean circulation predictable? (no). ICP14 (2022), Bergen (Norway).

__[8]__ Wong Hearing T., __Pohl, A.__, Williams M., Harvey T., Donnadieu Y., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. Climatic constraints on Cambrian palaeogeography. Royal Society 2019, London (UK).

__[7]__ Frau, C., Bulot, L., __Pohl, A.__, Ifrim, C., Wimbledon, W.A. Berriasian ammonites from the type “Ryazanian” (Central Russia) of supposed Tethyan origin: a systematic re-interpretation. JK2018: International Meeting AROUND the Jurassic-Cretaceous Boundary, Geneva (Switzerland).

__[6]__ __Pohl A.__, Austermann, J., Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.-B., Dumas C., Alvarez-Solas J., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. Modeling Ordovician ice sheet and the sea-level fingerprint of its collapse: toward a consistent picture of the Ordovician glaciation. EGU 2018, Vienna (Austria).

__[5]__ Nardin E., Lefebvre B., __Pohl A.__. Biogeography of the Late Ordovician blastozoan echinoderms. 60th Palaeontological Association Annual Meeting (2016), Lyon (France).

__[4]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Ladant J.-B., Dumas C., Alvarez-Solas J., Vandenbroucke T.R.A. Glacial onset predated Late Ordovician climate cooling. 12th International Conference on Paleoceanography (2016), Utrecht (The Netherlands).

__[3]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G., Brunetti M., Ferreira D. Constraints on the changes in Late Ordovician–early Silurian oceanic redox state through palaeoceanographic modelling. 12th International Conference on Paleoceanography (2016), Utrecht (The Netherlands).

__[2]__ Nardin E., Lefebvre B., Makhlouf Y., __Pohl A.__. Environmental controls of the biogeography of the Ordovicien “cystoids“. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 6th Annual Meeting (2016), Ghent (Belgium).

__[1]__ __Pohl A.__, Donnadieu Y., Le Hir G. Investigating the response of marine living communities to the Ordovician climate changes with the ocean-atmosphere-carbon model MITgcm. IGCP 591 “The Early to Middle Paleozoic Revolution” 5th Annual Meeting (2015), Quebec City (Canada).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Seminars

__[2]__ 2023, LGL-TPE, University of Lyon, Lyon, France.

__[1]__ 2016, Biogéosciences, University of Burgundy, Dijon, France.
