_pages/Resume.md, before:

---
layout: smallfont_page
permalink: /Resume/
title: Resume
description: CV
nav: true
---

## Research Positions

###### `2022–today` Permanent (CNRS) researcher, Biogéosciences, University of Burgundy, Dijon, France.

###### `2019–2022` Marie Curie postdoctoral researcher, paleoclimate modeling, University of California Riverside, CA, USA and Biogéosciences, Dijon, France.
- __Project [3 years]__: <i>[BioSIGNAL: Biological pump sensitivity and climate change – Interrogating past environmental perturbations.](https://alexpohl.github.io/BioSIGNAL/){:target="\_blank"}</i> Modeling changes in deep-time marine planktonic communities and their impact on ocean biogeochemistry, with special focus on ocean oxygenation / anoxia.

###### `2017–2019` Postdoctoral researcher, paleoclimate modeling, Centre Européen de Recherche et d’Enseignement en Géosciences de l’Environnement (CEREGE), Aix en Provence, France.
- __Project [2 years]__: <i>Investigating and quantifying the impact of the paleogeographical changes on the potential for reef-carbonate development throughout the Cretaceous.</i>

###### `2013–2016` Ph.D. in paleoclimate modeling, Laboratoire des Sciences du climat et de l’Environnement (LSCE), Paris, France.
- __Project [3 years]__: <i>Numerical modeling for increased understanding of Ordovician climate.</i> Supervisors: Yannick DONNADIEU (LSCE) and Guillaume LE HIR (IPGP).
- __Award__: Van Straelen Prize from the French Geological Society (SGF).
- __Award__: André Prud’homme Prize from the Meteo and Climate Association.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Research Programs

Ongoing projects

- `2024–2027` __ANR (French National project)__: "Opening the black box of CYCLOstratigraphy: a mechanistic understanding of the pathway between astronomical forcing and marine SEDiments (CYCLO-SED)" [PI; 320 k€].
- `2023–2026`  __Leverhulme (British project)__: “Earth System dynamics at the dawn of the animal-rich biosphere“ [Co-applicant; PI: M. Williams; 455 k€].
- `2023–2024` __French National Programm (INSU-CNRS)__: "RadiatiOnS and ExTincTions in eArly Paleozoic oceans: understanding the dynamics of the early marine biosphere (ROSETTA)" [PI; 15 k€].
- `2023` __French National Programm (INSU-CNRS)__: "Widespread Oceanic Anoxia during the Weissert Event ? (WOAW)" [Partner; PI: M. Martinez; 9 k€].
- `2023–2026`  __ANR (French National project)__: “Evolution of the Cambrian-Ordovician Biodiversification Onset Over Space and Time (ECO-BOOST)“ [Partner; PI: B. Lefebvre; 473 k€].

Past projects

- `2019–2022`  __Marie Curie Global Fellowship (European project)__: “Biological pump sensitivity and climate change: interrogating past environmental perturbations (BioSIGNAL)“ [PI, 257 k€].
- `2015`  __French National Programm (INSU-CNRS)__: “Response of global marine biodiversity to a major climate change: modeling the Ordovician glaciation (445 Ma) with the MITgcm and its marine ecology model Darwin.“ [partner, significantly contributed to the design and writting of the project] (PI: Y Donnadieu).
- `2014` __French National Programm (INSU-CNRS)__: “Ordovician microfossils and environment : did the Early Ordovician onset of cooling of the Early Palaeozoic Icehouse trigger the most important rise in biodiversity in the history of life on Earth?“ [partner] (PI: TRA Vandenbroucke).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Supervision and staff

PhD students

- ⚠️  Full-funded PhD thesis opportunity in Earth system modeling  [available](/assets/data/PhD_thesis_position_in_ESM_Dijon_France_Pohl_Puceat.pdf), applications welcome ! ⚠️
- `[ongoing]` __Alexis BALEMBOIS__, 2023–2026, “Study of global changes in biodiversity from 540 million years to now to better understand and anticipate future alterations in the context of anthropogenic climate change." Co-adviser. Principal advisers: G. Beaugrand, B. Lefebvre.

Engineers and post-docs

- [past] __Alexis BALEMBOIS, Research Engineer__, “Developing a model for the evolution of Phanerozoic marine biodiversity”. Duration: 6 month.

Master / bachelor students

- [past] __Daniel ELIAHOU, M.Sc. 2nd year__ (ULCO), “Impact of global climate on biodiversity during the Ordovician”. Co-adviser. Principal adviser: G. Beaugrand. Duration: 6 month.
- [past] __Thanh Nam NGO, 2nd year__ (Polytech Orléans), “Simulating marine biodiversity using a coupled climate-biodiversity model”. Principal adviser. Co-adviser: A. Brayard. Duration: 1 month.
- [past] __Houda BEGHOURA, M.Sc. 1st year__ (Aix-Marseille University), “Impact of the growth of the Ordovician ice sheet on the atmospheric circulation and the carbon cycle”. Principal adviser. Co-adviser: Y. Donnadieu. Duration: 2 months.
- [past] __Mourad HAGGUI, M.Sc. 2nd year__ (Aix-Marseille University), “Coupling paleontological database and paleoceanographical modeling to investigate the paleobiogeography of Cretaceous reef carbonates”. Co-adviser. Principal advisor: J. Borgomano. Duration: 5 months.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Other supervision responsibilities</h2>

- `2021–2022`: Member of the evaluation committee, Master in Earth Sciences,  Université Libre de Bruxelles (Brussels, Belgium).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Other administrative responsibilities</h2>

- `2021–prst` Member of the communication staff, Biogéosciences 

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Membership of scientific societies</h2>

- GDR Climat-Environnement-Vie, les apportes du préquaternaire
- GDR Océan et Mers (OMER)

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Review activity</h2>

Journals

<ul>
<li>Paleoceanography</li>
<li>Palaeogeography, Palaeoclimatology, Palaeoecology</li>
<li>Nature</li>
<li>Nature Geoscience</li>
<li>Nature Communications</li>
<li>Communications Earth & Environment</li>
<li>The Cryosphere</li>
<li>Climate of the Past</li>
<li>Lethaia</li>
<li>Earth Science Reviews</li>
<li>Earth System Dynamics</li>
<li>Geological Magazine</li>
<li>GSA Bulletin</li>
<li>Science Advances</li>
<li>Biogeosciences</li>
<li>Geosciences</li>
<li>PNAS</li>
<li>Geology</li>
<li>Chemical Geology</li>
<li>Geological Society of London Special Publications</li>
<li>Journal of Asian Earth Sciences</li>
<li>Earth and Planetary Science Letters</li>
<li>Global and Planetary Change</li>
<li>Marine and Petroleum Geology</li>
<li>Ecological Modeling</li>
<li>Sedimentary Geology</li>
<li>Geoscientific Model Development</li>
</ul>

Funding agencies and associations

<ul>
<li>INSU</li>
<li>National Science Center Poland</li>
<li>Belgian Physical Society</li>
<li>ETH Zurich</li>
<li>Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (German Research Foundation)</li>

</ul>

Commit message:

remodeling the student and staff section

_pages/Resume.md, after:

---
layout: smallfont_page
permalink: /Resume/
title: Resume
description: CV
nav: true
---

## Research Positions

###### `2022–today` Permanent (CNRS) researcher, Biogéosciences, University of Burgundy, Dijon, France.

###### `2019–2022` Marie Curie postdoctoral researcher, paleoclimate modeling, University of California Riverside, CA, USA and Biogéosciences, Dijon, France.
- __Project [3 years]__: <i>[BioSIGNAL: Biological pump sensitivity and climate change – Interrogating past environmental perturbations.](https://alexpohl.github.io/BioSIGNAL/){:target="\_blank"}</i> Modeling changes in deep-time marine planktonic communities and their impact on ocean biogeochemistry, with special focus on ocean oxygenation / anoxia.

###### `2017–2019` Postdoctoral researcher, paleoclimate modeling, Centre Européen de Recherche et d’Enseignement en Géosciences de l’Environnement (CEREGE), Aix en Provence, France.
- __Project [2 years]__: <i>Investigating and quantifying the impact of the paleogeographical changes on the potential for reef-carbonate development throughout the Cretaceous.</i>

###### `2013–2016` Ph.D. in paleoclimate modeling, Laboratoire des Sciences du climat et de l’Environnement (LSCE), Paris, France.
- __Project [3 years]__: <i>Numerical modeling for increased understanding of Ordovician climate.</i> Supervisors: Yannick DONNADIEU (LSCE) and Guillaume LE HIR (IPGP).
- __Award__: Van Straelen Prize from the French Geological Society (SGF).
- __Award__: André Prud’homme Prize from the Meteo and Climate Association.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Research Programs

Ongoing projects

- `2024–2027` __ANR (French National project)__: "Opening the black box of CYCLOstratigraphy: a mechanistic understanding of the pathway between astronomical forcing and marine SEDiments (CYCLO-SED)" [PI; 320 k€].
- `2023–2026`  __Leverhulme (British project)__: “Earth System dynamics at the dawn of the animal-rich biosphere“ [Co-applicant; PI: M. Williams; 455 k€].
- `2023–2024` __French National Programm (INSU-CNRS)__: "RadiatiOnS and ExTincTions in eArly Paleozoic oceans: understanding the dynamics of the early marine biosphere (ROSETTA)" [PI; 15 k€].
- `2023` __French National Programm (INSU-CNRS)__: "Widespread Oceanic Anoxia during the Weissert Event ? (WOAW)" [Partner; PI: M. Martinez; 9 k€].
- `2023–2026`  __ANR (French National project)__: “Evolution of the Cambrian-Ordovician Biodiversification Onset Over Space and Time (ECO-BOOST)“ [Partner; PI: B. Lefebvre; 473 k€].

Past projects

- `2019–2022`  __Marie Curie Global Fellowship (European project)__: “Biological pump sensitivity and climate change: interrogating past environmental perturbations (BioSIGNAL)“ [PI, 257 k€].
- `2015`  __French National Programm (INSU-CNRS)__: “Response of global marine biodiversity to a major climate change: modeling the Ordovician glaciation (445 Ma) with the MITgcm and its marine ecology model Darwin.“ [partner, significantly contributed to the design and writting of the project] (PI: Y Donnadieu).
- `2014` __French National Programm (INSU-CNRS)__: “Ordovician microfossils and environment : did the Early Ordovician onset of cooling of the Early Palaeozoic Icehouse trigger the most important rise in biodiversity in the history of life on Earth?“ [partner] (PI: TRA Vandenbroucke).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Supervision and staff

Opportunities

- ⚠️  Full-funded PhD thesis opportunity in Earth system modeling  [available](/assets/data/PhD_thesis_position_in_ESM_Dijon_France_Pohl_Puceat.pdf), applications welcome ! ⚠️

Ongoing work

- __Tristan VADSARIA__, Post-doc, 2024–2026, “Improving the representation of continental weathering in the cGENIE model". Advisor.
- __Alexis BALEMBOIS__, PhD student, 2023–2026, “Study of global changes in biodiversity from 540 million years to now to better understand and anticipate future alterations in the context of anthropogenic climate change." Co-adviser. Principal advisers: G. Beaugrand, B. Lefebvre.

Previous work

- __Alexis BALEMBOIS, Research Engineer__, “Developing a model for the evolution of Phanerozoic marine biodiversity”.
- __Daniel ELIAHOU, M.Sc. 2nd year__ (ULCO), “Impact of global climate on biodiversity during the Ordovician”. Co-adviser. Principal adviser: G. Beaugrand.
- __Thanh Nam NGO, 2nd year__ (Polytech Orléans), “Simulating marine biodiversity using a coupled climate-biodiversity model”. Principal adviser. Co-adviser: A. Brayard.
- __Houda BEGHOURA, M.Sc. 1st year__ (Aix-Marseille University), “Impact of the growth of the Ordovician ice sheet on the atmospheric circulation and the carbon cycle”. Principal adviser. Co-adviser: Y. Donnadieu. 
- __Mourad HAGGUI, M.Sc. 2nd year__ (Aix-Marseille University), “Coupling paleontological database and paleoceanographical modeling to investigate the paleobiogeography of Cretaceous reef carbonates”. Co-adviser. Principal advisor: J. Borgomano.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Other supervision responsibilities</h2>

- `2021–2022`: Member of the evaluation committee, Master in Earth Sciences,  Université Libre de Bruxelles (Brussels, Belgium).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Other administrative responsibilities</h2>

- `2021–prst` Member of the communication staff, Biogéosciences 

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Membership of scientific societies</h2>

- GDR Climat-Environnement-Vie, les apportes du préquaternaire
- GDR Océan et Mers (OMER)

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Review activity</h2>

Journals

<ul>
<li>Paleoceanography</li>
<li>Palaeogeography, Palaeoclimatology, Palaeoecology</li>
<li>Nature</li>
<li>Nature Geoscience</li>
<li>Nature Communications</li>
<li>Communications Earth & Environment</li>
<li>The Cryosphere</li>
<li>Climate of the Past</li>
<li>Lethaia</li>
<li>Earth Science Reviews</li>
<li>Earth System Dynamics</li>
<li>Geological Magazine</li>
<li>GSA Bulletin</li>
<li>Science Advances</li>
<li>Biogeosciences</li>
<li>Geosciences</li>
<li>PNAS</li>
<li>Geology</li>
<li>Chemical Geology</li>
<li>Geological Society of London Special Publications</li>
<li>Journal of Asian Earth Sciences</li>
<li>Earth and Planetary Science Letters</li>
<li>Global and Planetary Change</li>
<li>Marine and Petroleum Geology</li>
<li>Ecological Modeling</li>
<li>Sedimentary Geology</li>
<li>Geoscientific Model Development</li>
</ul>

Funding agencies and associations

<ul>
<li>INSU</li>
<li>National Science Center Poland</li>
<li>Belgian Physical Society</li>
<li>ETH Zurich</li>
<li>Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (German Research Foundation)</li>

</ul>
